Coding and Software
===================

Commenting: How should comments be included in code written for lab software,
and to what standards?  Should docstrings be included?

Coding Standards: How do we shape our active lines of code in form and
function?

Using Other Code: Under what circumstances should code external to the lab be
used?  (i.e., both fundamental libraries like NumPy / LAPACK and higher-level
codes that build on them)  How should interactions between the lab and upstream
communities be managed  How should changes be contributed, which users should
issue those changes (i.e., lab organizations or individual users)?

Licensing: What licenses (permissive, open source) should be used?  For
examples of non-copyleft licenses, BSD, MIT, X11 and Apache are commonly used.
If copyleft licenses are to be used (which are sometimes discouraged by funding
agencies, and patent provisions may interfere with institutional policy) are
GPLv3, GPL2, GPL2+, MPL, AGPL to be used?  For hybrid models, is LGPL
appropriate?

Languages: What languages do we use in the lab?  Under what circumstances?
(i.e., "Python for most aspects of development, using C/C++ for underlying
performance improvement, with Node.js for web apps.")

Data Management: When data is utilized by the lab, how is it stored?  How are
files named?  Where would relational databases and their tables be stored?  Is
there a naming convention?  When data is generated, how is it stored?  How is
access to data managed (i.e., is data on a filesystem accessible to all members
of the lab?  Is there an assumption of privacy?)  Is data cataloged, are notes
kept, and how is the cataloging system handled?

IP/Openness: Is there an assumption that development occurs in public, in
private, or in a mixture?

Record Keeping: How do we record our actions?  Are there specific places that
the lab has access to, and is it something shared between lab members?  Are
notes open?

Reproducibility: How do we ensure our analyses are reproducible?


