Expectations
============

Authorship: How do we confer authorship?  What constitutes collaboration or
work on a paper that results in authorship?

Project Ownership: When a project is developed in the lab, how does that
project (from a social, rather than licensing/IP/technical perspective) grow or
change if the primary developer leaves the lab?

Project Leadership: When software development is funded, how is the leadership
direction established for projects developed in the lab?  Is there a
consensus-based approach, is there are strategy for governance, does it include
external participants?  How is leadership broken down between technical and
social?

Data Management: When data is utilized by the lab, how is it stored?  How are
files named?  Where would relational databases and their tables be stored?  Is
there a naming convention?  When data is generated, how is it stored?  How is
access to data managed (i.e., is data on a filesystem accessible to all members
of the lab?  Is there an assumption of privacy?)  Is data cataloged, are notes
kept, and how is the cataloging system handled?

IP/Openness: Is there an assumption that development occurs in public, in
private, or in a mixture?

Record Keeping: How do we record our actions?  Are there specific places that
the lab has access to, and is it something shared between lab members?  Are
notes open?

Reproducibility: How do we ensure our analyses are reproducible?

Ethics: How do we decide what is right and wrong / who lives and who dies, and
how do we influence our decisions about projects, interactions, and scientific
actions based on these ethics?  This concerns things like scooping, being
worried about scooping, actions with respect to software and data as it
concerns "competitor" groups.  When developing software, how are citations to
other pieces of software handled?  When writing papers, how are citations
handled?
